---
description: Testing Geo Model Features for SHiP
---

# Geo Model

These are my notes of my experience testing Geo Model on Friday 21 for the SHiP experiment.

I used the calorimeter geometry developed by Matei, I did not write any geometry.

I focused my test on the FullSimLight experience, and how it is user-friendly.

### Installation

Installed on my laptop, OS Ubuntu 24.04 LTS.&#x20;

Installed binaries with at commands, from the guide.

Installation worked without any intervention from my side.

(some packages are quite heavy for my usual apt experience, hundreds of MB)

{% embed url="https://geomodel.web.cern.ch/home/start/install/" %}

### Compiling calorimeter geometry

For this test, I have used the geometry developed by Matei:<br>

[https://github.com/matclim/SHiPGeoModel](https://github.com/matclim/SHiPGeoModel)<br>

I have compiled it following instructions from the README. Again, no errors so far.

Both geometry and stand-alone Geant4 example simulation worked without issue.

I will focus on the geometry.db output, which is the one I analyzed so far.

### FullSimLight interface

From the geometry compiled, I then launched FullSimLight. I have first used the GUI, following here:

[https://geomodel.web.cern.ch/home/fullsimlight/fsl/](https://geomodel.web.cern.ch/home/fullsimlight/fsl/)

In short:

* Start the GUI with `fsl`
* Set particle identity and momentum (no position, which is strange from my experience, I guess the Particle Gun always fires them from the origin by default);
* Set geometry file (the geometry.db made at the previous step).
* (Optional) Enable Tracks plugin (it will make a Tracks\_data.h5).
* Run the simulation from the main interface

#### Overlap check

The first time I launched it, the FullSimLight simulation gave an overlap error (mother-daughter) and it refused to execute the simulation. This was a good chance to also test the gmclash tool:

[https://geomodel.web.cern.ch/home/fullsimlight/gmclash/](https://geomodel.web.cern.ch/home/fullsimlight/gmclash/)

I both launched it from the FullSimLight GUI and from terminal:

```
gmclash -g geometry.db -o output.json
```

&#x20;It will print out clashes and return a summary JSON file of all found conflicts.\
In this case, the clash reason was trivial (mother too small). I do not know how the JSON may help in figuring out more difficult clashes.

After fixing the clashes, I deleted geometry.db and I compiled it again (keeping geometry.db instead before rebuilding it gives me a lot of errors). Then gmclashes returned no clashes and FullSimLight was able to generate my test simulations.

### Visualization

I used gmex command as recommended by Matei:

```
gmex geometry.db
```

A bit troublesome, by default all volumes are not drawn. I needed to tick them on one by one. I could not see the reason for this.

Then, Tracks can be viewed by activating the "Tracks Display" from the General tab. It will then ask for the Tracks\_data.h5 file generated by FullSimLight.

It should be possible to also see showers developing in real time according to the guide, but I was not able to confirm that, since when I tried an electron shower the number of tracks was too large to handle in this way (my laptop froze).

### Summary of this test

The FullSimLight GUI is very user-friendly and it can be used to test the geometry without writing any specific code line.

The Particle Gun GUI does not include particle position. I did not test the interface to Pythia generator.

Both gmex visualization and gmclash overlap checks can be launched from the GUI.&#x20;

It may not be suitable to large scale production, but it is an useful test for quickly debugging your geometry, without needing to interface it with other libraries.

